Legal Information
=================

Copyrights
----------

All brand names and trademarks mentioned on this website and in documents found
on this website are the property of their respective owners.

Disclaimer
----------

The CMUcam1 was designed very carefully. We have made every effort to avoid
mistakes but we cannot guarantee that the CMUCam1 is free of errors. The
information found on this website is given as an indication.

Limitation of Liability
-----------------------

In no event shall Carnegie Mellon University and its manufactures and
distributors be liable for any damages whatsoever (including, without
limitation, damages for loss of profit, operating cost for commercial
interruption, loss of information, or any other financial loss) from the use or
inability to use the CMUcam1 even if Carnegie Mellon University or its
manufactures or distributors have been informed of such damages.

The CMUcam1 is intended to be used indoors in residential areas for hobbyist,
educational, and experimental use. The CMUcam1 is not designed and not
authorized for use in military applications, or for use in applications
involving explosives, or in medical applications, or for use as a security
alarm, or for use as a fire alarm, or in applications involving elevators, or in
embedded applications in commercial vehicles such as but not limited to cars,
trucks, boats, scooters, motorcycles, karts, jet skis, aircraft, helicopters,
etc., or in embedded applications involving commercial aircraft such as but not
limited to helicopters, gliders, etc.

In the same way, the CMUcam1 is not designed, or intended, or authorized to
test, develop, or be built into applications where failure could create a
dangerous situation that may result in financial losses, damage to property,
personal injury, or the death of people or animals. If you use the CMUcam1
voluntarily or involuntarily for such unauthorized applications, you agree to
subtract Carnegie Mellon University and its manufactures and distributors from
all liability for any claim for compensation. Carnegie Mellon University and its
manufactures and distributors entire liability and your exclusive remedy shall
be at Carnegie Mellon University's and its manufactures and distributors option
for the return of the price paid for, or repair, or replacement of the CMUcam1.
Carnegie Mellon University and its manufactures and distributors disclaim all
other warranties, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to,
the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose,
with respect to the CMUcam1 including accompanying written material, hardware and
firmware.
